
Windows Batchfiles 0.5-0

This is a set of Windows batch and javascript 
utilities for use with R. 

They run R and perform associated tasks involving
R by finding R in the registry and then calling
the appropraite utility so that no paths need be
set -- an otherwise significant source of
potential error when using R.  Also  the R
installer inserts a key into the registry each
each time R is upgraded and these utilities detect
that and run accordingly simplifying upgrades
by eliminating the need to reset paths.

The following utilities are provided.  They are
each mutually independent so any can be used
without the others.  Installation consists only of
copying whichever file or files is desired to any
folder in the Windows PATH.  

Legend:
h = no args gives help
0 = common usage is to enter command name without arguments

#Rscript.bat - put at top of R file to make it a batch file (h)
copydir.bat - copy a library from one version of R to another (h)
el.js - run elevated - Vista and up, e.g. el Rgui  runs R elevated
find-miktex.hta - GUI to find MiKTeX (0)
jgr.bat - like jgr.exe but finds R from registry as well as JGR library (0)
kopy.bat - copy Rcmd to other batch files (h)
movedir.bat - move library from one version of R to another (h)
R.bat - like R.exe but finds R from registry (0)
Rcmd.bat - like Rcmd.exe but finds R from registry (h)
RExcelVersion.hta - like Rversions.hta but also sets .RData association (0)
Rgui.bat - like Rgui.exe but finds R from registry (0)
RguiStart.bat - like Rgui.bat but arg1 defines folder to start R in
Rscript.bat - run .R script (h)
Rterm.bat - like rterm.exe but finds R from registry (h)
Rtidy.bat - reformat a .R file, e.g. Rtidy myfile.R > outfile.R
Rtools.bat - place Rtools on path for remainder of console session (0)
Rversions.bat - list which versions of R are in registry (0)
Rversions.hta - GUI interface to RSetReg.  List and set R version (0)
show-svn-info.hta - show svn info if current folder is an svn checkout (0)
Stangle.bat - run arg1 through Stangle (h)
Sweave.bat - run arg1 through Sweave (h)

Note that #Rscript.bat, R.bat, Rcmd.bat, Rgui.bat,
RguiStart.bat, Rscript.bat, Rterm.bat, Rtools.bat
and jgr.bat are all the same file but with
different names.  The program checks what name it
was called by and acts accordingly.  Similarly
Sweave.bat and Stangle.bat are the same file with
different names.

The main new features in version 0.5-0 are:

  o testing on XP32, XPx64, Vista32, Win7x64.
    Thanks to Nicholas Hirschey.

  o added defensive code to batch files to work
    even in the presence of certain bad components
    in pre-existing PATH variables.

  o new command show-svn-info.hta which when run 
    from a Tortoise SVN checkout folder shows some 
    info about it.  Requires Tortoise SVN version 
    1.5 or higher.

  o new command find-miktex.hta can be run without
	arguments from the Windows command line (or
	double clicked from Windows Explorer).  It
	will show the path to the MiKTeX bin folder.

  o Rversions.hta now also changes the .RData
    association and has been verified to work on
    both XP and Vista.

  o new RExcelversion.hta (also distributed with
    RExcel) that is like Rversions.hta but also sets
    the version for Rexcel at the same time.  Thanks 
    to Erich Neumann.

  o jgr.bat now passes the Windows library
    directory name and R home directory name to
    jgr.exe automatically

More info and pointers to download site on CRAN
can be found on the home page:

	http://batchfiles.googlecode.com

