
Changes in Version 0.3-1

  o new find-miktex.bat which lists the mixktex folders from the registry

Changes in Version 0.3-0

  o sweave now generates a second .pdf ending which is a copy of the first
    but has a unique name and displays that.  This works around a problem
    with acrobat that it will not display two files with the same name
    at the same time.

  o new --tex, --pdf, --nobck.pdf switches are available on sweave.  Also
    expanded help when entering sweave without args.
    
Changes in Version 0.2-9

  o updated README and other documentation files and inline documentation

  o added sweave.bat
 
  o new google code home page and svn repository
    http://code.google.com/p/batchfiles/

Changes in Version 0.2-8

  o bug fix in copydir.bat and movedir.bat

Changes in Version 0.2-7

  o removed extra popup from Rversions.hta

  o Rfind.bat now looks in registry for MiKTeX, replacing
    previous heuristic.  [Thanks for help from Duncan
    Murdoch].  Also RToolsDir typo fixed in Rfind.bat.

Changes in Version 0.2-6

  o batch files no longer use short names internally since this
    triggers a bug in Windows batch in the case of the new R
    folder naming conventions.

  o Rversions.hta - fix for path names with spaces

  o Rrefresh.bat has been removed (after having been deprecated in
    in previous versions of batchfiles).

  o tested movedir.bat by using it to upgrade R-2.2.0pat to R-2.2.1.  
    See instructions in README.

Changes in Version 0.2-5

  o added movedir.bat which moves libraries from one version of
    R to another.  This is like copydir.bat but is much faster and
    can be used when the older version of R is no longer needed
    (unlike copydir.bat which preserves the older version).  See
    README for usage.

Changes in Version 0.2-3

  o added copydir.bat which can copy libraries from one version of
    R to another.  (This is a temporary solution until R provides
    facilities for upgrading the libraries, expected in R 2.3.0 .)
    See README for usage.
    
  o eliminated all code associated with reading and manipulation of
    R_ENVIRON, R_PROFILE and R_LIBS simplifying the batch files.  Use
    copydir.bat instead.

  o Rversions.hta is a javascript GUI version of Rversions.bat 

Changes in Version 0.2-2

  o added jgr.bat which starts up the JGR GUI.

  o added Rversions.bat which can list the directories of all R versions 
    available and can set one to become the current R version.

  o all batch scripts which used the environment variable name Rrw now 
    use the environment variable name R_HOME instead.

  o Rcmd.bat, Rgui.bat, R.bat, jgr.bat files will now read R_ENVIRON, 
    if present, and set the R_LIBS definition in it, if present (unless
    R_LIBS is already defined as an environment variable).  All R_ENVIRON
    file syntax accepted by R is supported including comments (#), 
    var=value, var=${foo-bar} and recursions, var=${A-${B-C}}.

  o makepkg.bat internals were simplified due to previous point.

  o updated WISHLIST.

  o updated THANKS.

  o updated README.  More introductory information.  Also instructions 
    for Rgui shortcut will disable screen flash on startup. Corrections.

Changes in Version 0.2-1

  o improvements to README

Changes in Version 0.2-0

  o can now support configurations without *.site files (as well as
    configurations with *.site files) thereby reducing the minimum 
    configuration even further.  

  o Rcmd.bat, Rgui.bat and R.bat now temporarily set R_ENVIRON,
    R_PROFILE and R_LIBS as needed so that it is no longer necessary to 
    copy the *.site files into the etc directory eliminating all
    reconfiguration when upgrading to a new version of R (except for
    refreshing MiKTeX).

  o new command miktex-refresh.bat is used to refresh MiKTeX after a
    new version of R is installed. Previously this was done in
    Rrefresh.bat which is now deprecated.  Rrefresh.bat is no longer 
    needed (unless you want each R version to have its own *.site files).

  o new NEWS, WISHLIST and RESOURCES files.

  o README provides additional details.

